Replace recipe_era5.yml with recipe_daily_era5.yml (#2182)
ESMValGroup/ESMValTool: doc/sphinx/source/input.rst

Cmorization as a fix
--------------------
ESMValCore also provides support for some datasets in their native
format. In this case, the steps needed to reformat the data are executed as
datasets fixes during the execution of an ESMValTool recipe, as one of the first
preprocessor steps, see :ref:`fixing data <esmvalcore:fixing_data>`.
Compared to the workflow described above, this has the
advantage that the user does not need to store a duplicate (cmorized) copy of
the data. Instead, the cmorization is performed 'on the fly' when running a
recipe. The native6 project supports data in the format defined in the

> `config-developer file <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/blob/a9312a7d5be4fa3aac55c0b2ef089c6b4e1a61a9/esmvalcore/config-developer.yml#L191-L201>`_.

Reviewer: Maybe replace this by a link to the chapter describing the config-developer.yml file? https://docs.esmvaltool.org/projects/esmvalcore/en/latest/quickstart/configure.html#developer-configuration-file

Author: Revised.

Cmorization as a fix
--------------------

> As of early 2020, ESMValTool also provides support for some data in their native

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ESMValCore also provides support for some datasets in their native
```
I think the date reference can be removed, users are mostly interested in the current features, if they want the history they can look at the changelog. It would also be good to distinguish between ESMValTool and ESMValCore. The native support is an ESMValCore feature.

advantage that the user does not need to store a duplicate (cmorized) copy of
the data. Instead, the cmorization is performed 'on the fly' when running a
recipe. The native6 project supports data in the format defined in the
`config-developer file <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/blob/a9312a7d5be4fa3aac55c0b2ef089c6b4e1a61a9/esmvalcore/config-developer.yml#L191-L201>`_.
Some of ERA5, ERA5-Land and MSWEP data are currently supported,
see :ref:`supported datasets <supported_datasets>`.

To use this functionality, users need to provide a path for the ``native6``
project data in the :ref:`user configuration file<config-user>`. Then, in the
recipe, they can refer to the native6 project. For example:

.. code-block:: yaml

    datasets:
    - {dataset: ERA5, project: native6, type: reanaly, version: '1', tier: 3, start_year: 1990, end_year: 1990}

More examples can be found in the diagnostics ``ERA5_native6`` in the
recipe `examples/recipe_check_obs.yml <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/blob/main/esmvaltool/recipes/examples/recipe_check_obs.yml>`_.

It may be useful in some cases to create ERA5 daily cmorized data. This can be
achieved by using a cmorizer *recipe*,

> see `recipe_daily_era5.yml <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/blob/main/esmvaltool/recipes/cmorizers/recipe_daily_era5.yml>`_.

Reviewer: Would it be possible to move this information to a CMORizer recipes page that describes the available CMORizer recipes? Similar to how we have a page for all example recipes here? https://docs.esmvaltool.org/en/latest/recipes/recipe_examples.html

Author: yes, it is moved to a new page.

Reviewer: Thanks a lot, much better like this!

    datasets:
    - {dataset: ERA5, project: native6, type: reanaly, version: '1', tier: 3, start_year: 1990, end_year: 1990}

More examples can be found in the example diagnostics ``ERA5_native6`` in the recipe `examples/recipe_check_obs.yml <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/blob/main/esmvaltool/recipes/examples/recipe_check_obs.yml>`_.

> Currently, the native6 project only supports ERA5 and ERA5-Land (hourly and monthly) data in the format defined in the `config-developer file <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/blob/a9312a7d5be4fa3aac55c0b2ef089c6b4e1a61a9/esmvalcore/config-developer.yml#L191-L201>`_. ERA5 data can be downloaded using `era5cli <https://era5cli.readthedocs.io>`_ To support other datasets as well, we need to make it possible to have a dataset specific DRS. This is still on the horizon.

Reviewer: MSWEP is also supported, this is documented here (a rather hard to find choice for a location to add documentation): https://docs.esmvaltool.org/projects/esmvalcore/en/latest/develop/fixing_data.html#natively-supported-non-cmip-datasets

Dataset specific DRS is no longer needed since https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/645 was merged and the idea has been abandoned, see discussion in https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/issues/494

Would it be possible to rewrite this section so it is a bit less specific to ERA5? I noticed that in the table below the ERA5-Land dataset is missing the indication that it is supported natively and MSWEP is completely missing. If it's not too much work, would you be willing to update that too in this pull request?

Author: Thanks. The text is now revised. Is it better? Also, the table and the text below it are updated.

Reviewer: Much better, thanks!
